README.rst, before:

python-kvm
==========

This module aims to manage KVM hypervisors. For this it use the
`unix module <https://github.com/fmenabe/python-unix>`_ which allow to manage
Unix-like systems, both locally and remotely, in the same by overloading class
instances. This module is just a wrapper to the ``virsh`` command. It parse
outputs of the ``virsh`` command (both XML and text). Commands are grouped in
childs objects accessible via properties.

Installation
------------
This module is compatible with python2.7 and python 3.*. The module is
on **PyPi** so you can use the ``pip`` command for installing it.

For example, to use ``kvm`` in a virtualenv:

.. code:: bash

   $ virtualenv env/ --prompt "(myprog)"
   $ . ./env/bin/activate
   (myprog) $ pip install kvm

Otherwise sources are on github: https://github.com/fmenabe/python-kvm

Usage
-----
You need to import the necessary classes from ``unix`` module. An hypervisor is
represented by the **Hypervisor** object and must wrap an object of type
``unix.Local`` or ``unix.Remote``. It theorically support any Unix system, but
disks manipulations need *nbd* module to be loaded so it is better to use an
``unix.linux.Linux`` host.

.. code-block:: python

    >>> from unix import Local, Remote, UnixError
    >>> from unix.linux import Linux
    >>> import kvm
    >>> import json
    >>> localhost = kvm.Hypervisor(Linux(Local()))
    >>> localhost.hypervisor.nodeinfo()
    {'nb_cpu': 1,
     'nb_threads_per_core': 2,
     'memory': 16331936,
     'numa_cells': 1,
     'cpu_model': 'x86_64',
     'nb_cores_per_cpu': 4,
     'nb_cores': 8,
     'cpu_freq': 1340}
    >>> localhost.list_domains(all=True)
    {'guest1': {'id': -1, 'state': 'shut off'}}
    {'guest2': {'id': 1, 'state': 'running'}}
    >>> localhost.domain.start('guest1')
    # Wait a few seconds for the domain to start.
    >>> localhost.domain.state('guest1')
    'running'
    >>> localhost.domain.id('guest1')
    2
    >>> print(json.dumps(localhost.domain.conf('guest1'), indent=2))
    # json is use for pretty printing the dictionnary containing the
    # configuration.
    {
      "@type": "kvm",
      "name": "guest1",
      "uuid": "ed68d942-5d4b-7bba-4d74-7d44d73779d3",
      "memory": {
        "@unit": "KiB",
        "#text": "2097152"
      },
      ...
    }
    >>> localhost.list_networks()
    {'default': {'autostart': True, 'persistent': True, 'state': 'active'}}

    >>> host = unix.Remote()
    >>> host.connect('hypervisor1')
    >>> host = kvm.Hypervisor(Linux(host)
    >>> host.hypervisor.nodeinfo()
    {'cores_per_socket': 12,
     'cpu_frequency': '2200 MHz',
     'cpu_model': 'x86_64',
     'cpu_sockets': 2,
     'cpus': 24,
     'memory_size': '98974432 kB',
     'numa_cells': 1,
     'threads_per_core': 1}
    >>> host.list_domains(all=True)
    {'guest1': {'id': 1, 'state': 'running'}}
    {'guest2': {'id': 2, 'state': 'running'}}
    >>> host.domain.shutdown('guest2')
    # Wait for the domain to stop.
    >>> host.domain.state('guest1')
    'shut off'

Commit message:

Set version to 1.1.1
A function that was not even commited had been pushed on the PyPi
package ... So change version for pushing new version with the
correct code base.

Also correct some typos in README.

README.rst, after:

python-kvm
==========

This module aims to manage KVM hypervisors. For this it use the
`unix module <https://github.com/fmenabe/python-unix>`_ which allow to manage
Unix-like systems, both locally and remotely, in the same by overloading class
instances. This module is just a wrapper to the ``virsh`` command. It parse
outputs of the ``virsh`` command (both XML and text). Commands are grouped in
childs objects accessible via properties.

Installation
------------
This module is compatible with python2.7 and python 3.*. The module is
on **PyPi** so you can use the ``pip`` command for installing it.

For example, to use ``kvm`` in a virtualenv:

.. code:: bash

   $ virtualenv env/ --prompt "(myprog)"
   $ . ./env/bin/activate
   (myprog) $ pip install kvm

Otherwise sources are on github: https://github.com/fmenabe/python-kvm

Usage
-----
You need to import the necessary classes from ``unix`` module. An hypervisor is
represented by the **Hypervisor** object and must wrap an object of type
``unix.Local`` or ``unix.Remote``. It theorically support any Unix system, but
disks manipulations need *nbd* module to be loaded so it is better to use an
``unix.linux.Linux`` host.

.. code-block:: python

    >>> from unix import Local, Remote, UnixError
    >>> from unix.linux import Linux
    >>> import kvm
    >>> import json
    >>> localhost = kvm.Hypervisor(Linux(Local()))
    >>> localhost.hypervisor.nodeinfo()
    {'nb_cpu': 1,
     'nb_threads_per_core': 2,
     'memory': 16331936,
     'numa_cells': 1,
     'cpu_model': 'x86_64',
     'nb_cores_per_cpu': 4,
     'nb_cores': 8,
     'cpu_freq': 1340}
    >>> localhost.list_domains(all=True)
    {'guest1': {'id': -1, 'state': 'shut off'}}
    {'guest2': {'id': 1, 'state': 'running'}}
    >>> localhost.domain.start('guest1')
    # Wait a few seconds for the domain to start.
    >>> localhost.domain.state('guest1')
    'running'
    >>> localhost.domain.id('guest1')
    2
    >>> print(json.dumps(localhost.domain.conf('guest1'), indent=2))
    # json is use for pretty printing the dictionnary containing the
    # configuration.
    {
      "@type": "kvm",
      "name": "guest1",
      "uuid": "ed68d942-5d4b-7bba-4d74-7d44d73779d3",
      "memory": {
        "@unit": "KiB",
        "#text": "2097152"
      },
      ...
    }
    >>> localhost.list_networks()
    {'default': {'autostart': True, 'persistent': True, 'state': 'active'}}

    >>> host = Remote()
    >>> host.connect('hypervisor1')
    >>> host = kvm.Hypervisor(Linux(host))
    >>> host.hypervisor.nodeinfo()
    {'cores_per_socket': 12,
     'cpu_frequency': '2200 MHz',
     'cpu_model': 'x86_64',
     'cpu_sockets': 2,
     'cpus': 24,
     'memory_size': '98974432 kB',
     'numa_cells': 1,
     'threads_per_core': 1}
    >>> host.list_domains(all=True)
    {'guest1': {'id': 1, 'state': 'running'}}
    {'guest2': {'id': 2, 'state': 'running'}}
    >>> host.domain.shutdown('guest2')
    # Wait for the domain to stop.
    >>> host.domain.state('guest1')
    'shut off'

    # Using the context manager for the connecion.
    >>> from unix.linux as linux, kvm
    >>> with linux.connect('hypervisor1') as host:
    ...   host = kvm.Hypervisor(host)
    ...   host.hypervisor.node_info()
